# CYSE465
 In the beginning, I had to set up autoware auto and configure the settings properly. To do this I initially set up ADE where ADE needs a directory on the host machine which is mounted to our user’s home directory within the container. I had to find the binary ade install it into the specific PATH on Ubuntu which was /usr/local/ bin, and I had to use sudo rights as well. After doing this, I made the binary executable and configured it using the git clone I found on the autoware foundation git lab. After finally configuring and installing it, I had to enter the environment to test for generating sensor data. This includes running the simulator and launching for visualization rviz2, which can be used to visualize the perception data I used to see if my configurations were correct. After sourcing each of the setup.bash, I was able to launch the point cloud filter transform node, ray ground classifier node, euclidean cluster node, and the specific car model to visualize the sensor data. I did all of this to set up ade so we could do the rest of project 2, starting with configuring LGSVL. I first had to start ADE with the SVL volume to launch the simulator. This includes going into the adehome and AutowareAuto directory and then choosing the ROS version, such as noetic, to start, update, and enter ade. After doing this, I could start SVL simulator in the same terminal window. Viren and I created a simulation in the SVL simulator after I linked to the cloud using my GMU email and created a password. We then chose the map, configured a vehicle, added ROS2ForUnitySVLBridge, configured the vehicle sensors, and chose/created a simulation. After starting the simulation for our test demo, we could drive the Lexus vehicle we used for the demo and set up SVL entirely, even though it was a bit laggy. We had to refresh the screen after every time we clicked something within the browser to see what changes were made. 
At first, Viren and I had trouble with random people joining our instance, but we got help from ORC to eliminate the troll users. Since we wanted to use Lidar sensors to visualize and capture data, I looked online with the help of Viren to see if we could run it with Autoware. Since Autoware is based on ROS, I first created a workspace folder and entered it, cloned the ROS Velodyne driver into the src folder, built the Velodyne drive as a ROS node, and set up the running environment. I realized we had errors using catkin_make, so I had to install python3 catkin_pkg for it to finally work. After sourcing setup.bash and our ROS_DISTRO (Noetic), we ran into another problem: our machine's network configuration. I solved this by exporting ROS_MASTER_URI and exporting ROS_HOSTNAME to finally allow my network to be configured correctly. As Viren stated, I was able to capture random data points but was not able to correctly link Velodyne 16 sensors to our vehicle in LGSVL and finally gave up on that solution to find LiDAR sensor data using Velodyne. I then looked for solutions to find a way to set up RViz and SVL simulators with Viren, which he explains in his contribution.
